# installSynApps

A collection of scripts meant to install all of epics and synApps with one command

### Included scripts

Script name                    | Script Function
------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------
installSynApps.sh | top level bash script that runs the remaining scripts sequentially
clone_and_checkout.py | Clones all required repositories and checks out correct versions
read_install_config.py | Script that reads the data in the INSTALL_CONFIG file
update_release_file.py | Script that updates the release files in support and area detector
ad_config_setup.py | Script based on adConfigSetup, that replaces area detector configuration files
dependencyInstall.sh | bash script that installs all required packages for EPICS and synApps
script_generator.py | script that creates bash scripts for installing and uninstalling, so that compilation for other operating systems is simplified.
initIOCs.py         | script that can be used to quickly initialize prototype IOCs using the [ioc-template](https://github.com/epicsNSLS2-deploy/ioc-template). 


### Included Configuration files

Configuration file      | Use 
-------------------------|--------------------
INSTALL_CONFIG      | The main configuration file for installSynApps. Use this file to decide which modules to clone and build
AD_RELEASE_CONFIG   | Adds paths to external plugins developed for area detector into the area detector build process.
MAKEFILE_CONFIG     | Injects contents into `ADCore/ADApp/commonDriverMakefile`. Used to build against additional libraries
PLUGIN_CONFIG       | Injects contents into `ADCore/iocBoot/commonPlugins.cmd`. Used to load additional plugins at IOC startup
AUTOSAVE_CONFIG     | Injects contents into `ADCore/iocBoot/commonPlugin_settings.req`. Used to configure IOC autosave feature
BUILD_FLAG_CONFIG   | Allows for manually setting Area Detector build flags ex. `JPEG_EXTERNAL=YES`.
IOC_CONFIG          | Stores IOC configuration information for `initIOCs.py` ioc generation


### Usage

There are only 2 locations with files that need to be edited before running the script. These are the `configure/*` files, and the `scripts/dependencyInstall.sh` file. In the first, edit the install configurations for your installation. In most cases, you may simply change the `MODULE_INSTALL` tag  in the `INSTALL_CONFIG` file for the modules you wish to build and those you don't wish to build, and you must also edit the line
```
INSTALL=/epics
```
to point to the top level directory in which you wish to install EPICS and synApps. The other files in the `configure/` directory contain other configurations, with each one being inserted into a different Area Detector build file. Details can be found in comments in the files themselves.

In the only other file that you must edit (`scripts/dependencyInstall.sh`), once again set `INSTALL` to the same as in the previous file. In addition, if there are any other dependencies for your build of EPICS and synApps, add them here. For example, to auto-build the ADUVC driver, libuvc must be built, so I added a condition for building and installing libuvc.

From here, you are ready to run the script, and this is done simply by running:
```
./installSynApps.sh
```
from the /scripts directory. Note that you will be prompted for a sudo password to install the dependency packages. Once the script completes, a new directory `autogenerated` is created, and `install.sh` and `uninstall.sh` files are placed within each. Run the appropriate file to uninstall or recompile the packages appropriately. This should simplify building the same sources on multiple operating systems.


### Init IOCs

Once synApps has been built and packaged with the [ioc_deploy]() script, you may unpack the tarball in the location you wish to run from, them edit the IOC_CONFIG file. This file will contain the locations of the IOC dir and the top dir where the tarball was unpacked, and a list of IOCs to add. two example iocs are described in the file now. Once you added the IOCs as required, simply run this script with:
```
python3 initIOCs.py
```
